Now what is enable mode.
Also cold enabled mode privileged mode or privileged mode.
It goes by any one of those names enabled mode allows you to use many more show commands than you have
in user mode.
It also allows you to run debugging on the road it was switch where you can see life output or real
time output.
So as an example you could see the real time updates of OSPF messages sent between routers.
This mode allows you to access all device commands such as those used for configuration and management
and can be password protected to only allow authorized users access to this mode using either a secret
or enable password.
So you need to go to enable mode if you wan to go to other modes such as a global configuration.
Once again you have many more options available in privileged mode than you would in user mode and you
can see that quite simply by using the question mark command in enable mode.
They are many more commands available here and I have to press space bar multiple times to see all the
commands available in this mode.
Debug commands such as debug IP ICMP excepted in this mode I can go to global configuration mode by
typing confetti or configure terminal controls Zayde as I call it or control Z will take me back to
enable privileged mode.
So in summary use exec mode only allows a limited number of commands including basic monitoring commands.
This mode is also referred to as a view only mode the use exec level does not allow for the execution
of any commands that may change the configuration or control the operation of the Rato switch.
So as an example you cannot reload a switch or router from user mode.
You'd have to do that from Enable or privilege mode by default.
There is no authentication on user mode.
In other words no authentication is required to access this mode but it's good practice to enable authentication
when you initially configure a device.
So you would configure a password on the console of a Rotto switch as an example the next most is global
configuration mode or global config mode the prompt that you'll see is hostname as in the name of the
road it was switch followed by config in brackets and followed by a pound sign or hash sign global configuration
mode allows you to change global parameters of a rod or switch.
So for example you could change the name of the router you could specify a banner message of the day.
And many other options through global configuration mode.
So as an example from enable mode I can type confetti which is the abbreviated version of configure
terminal and that takes me to global configuration mode on the router.
I can then use the command hostname and specify a new name for this router.
In this example.
Taste.
And when I press enter.
Notice the prompt has changed.
So I see the hostname of the router followed by config in brackets followed by hash or £0 if you prefer.
If I enter the command banner message of the day and press enter.
I'm told that this is an incomplete command I can use control P or the up arrow key to view the previously
typed command.
And then I can use a question mark to see the options available.
So I'm told that I need to enter a delimiting character.
So in this example I'm going to use hash or once again if you prefer the pound sign and then I'm told
to enter some text so I could say something like Hello this is Rato one press enter.
Now I'll enter the delimiting character which is hash and when I press Enter I'm taken back to Global
config mode.
Now Ben a message of the day is a message that displays every time you log into a router switch.
So if I press control Zed to get back to enable mode and then type exit to exit the router notice I'm
told that I'm connected to console zero on the router.
And now when I press Enter notice the banner is displayed.
Now it's important that you don't use a remote or message of the Day message here like welcome to my
Rodda or welcome to my network.
You should use a legal statement stating that for example this is a private network and unauthorized
access is not permitted.
There's an urban legend that you may hear where hackers were able to access a device.
In other words the hacked teen and when they were caught they got away with it because the message on
the road said welcome to my router and they told the authorities that they felt welcomed to the router
and therefore decided to gain access to the Rodda.
So it's important that you put some legal statement stating that unauthorized access is not permitted.
So anyone connecting to your road or switch knows that only authorized individuals are allowed access
to the device.
So once again in privileged mode I can type confetti and that takes me to global config mode in global
config mode.
There is a long list of commands available and Christian Mark displays them.
So as you can see these lists are quite long and it's unlikely that you'll ever learn all the commands
available in the Cisco IOS because there are thousands of them.